# Smart-Glass


**Field of the invention:**
Vision plays a major role in our day today life.Vision is a essential factor which helps us to survive. Our main idea is  to develop a smart glass for visually challeged people toread books without any guide to dictate. Our project helps visualy impaired people as a artificial eye and scans the books using camera fixed on smart glass which is connect to a H-computing device jetson-nano  it extracts the text from the taken image and give it as audio output to the visually challenged people.
Visually impaired people can gain more knowledge independently by using our project idea. So, we design a spectacle which is different from ordinary one, it consists of a camera, earphones, microphone and ultrasonic sensor. We get a voice command to access camera and scan the book or any other document which the user wants to read. We extract the text from the image using OCR (Tesseract model) and using gTTs the extracted text is converted into voice output and we pass the output using headphones to the user.  We run this model in raspberry pi. This can be implemented for multiple language based on the users need. Children with slight or severe impairments of any physical organ or children who are mentally unstable are given special talents to aid them in absorbing the normal life process. According to UNESCO's report on children with disabilities, 27% of impaired children between the ages of 5 and 19 do not have access to education. We consider providing them with a supportive and growing environment where they can live and grow. In the educational ecosystem, the needs of such an environment need to be catered according to the category of ailments that exist in the students and provisions need to be made to make them feel special, and cared for and set the right mindset while they grow. Vision plays a major role among all senses. With just little aid to the visually impaired people existing currently, there is a need to implement a device that aids them in their educational purpose. The goal is to provide inexpensive solutions to the visually impaired and make their lives better and more self-sufficient. Techocular is made to aid school children with total or partially impaired eyesight without needing a guardian to improve their knowledge. The configuration of hardware and software units is to be designed, which leads to the recognition of texts from the given source and converts it to audio input for the user. We present a method, which uses Optical Character Recognition on the live stream of images and Natural language  Processing for further conversion for expected output.
